To begin the project, I created the xsd schema for the project by declaring each element for the share info containing the company name as a string, company symbol as a string, number of available shares as an int, complex share price which contains the currency as a string and value as a float and date of last update of the share price as a date. The xsd schema was then bound to the project using jaxb bindings to incorporate the XML data. Next, in the main class of the server project I created the read to xml class which firstly formats the date using Gregorian calendar to use the system date, then I created the list for each share to be stored in and then assigned each element a variable using the .set and then using .add to add each share to the sharelist. After declaring the location for the xml file to be stored using jaxb marshaller to create the xml file and marshal the share list into xml format as the jaxb marshaller is responsible for serializing java objects to xml data. Next, I created the web service on the server side by firstly creating the getallshares class as a list and using jaxb unmarshaller to unmarshall the xml file data by serializing xml data to java objects which can then be stored in the list and output in to the webservice. I then created the client side using a java application and creating a swing gui using the jframe on NetBeans by adding each swing control into the frame to create the gui. The client web service should allow users to list share details this was achieved by first using the web service references to allow referencing from the server wsdl files and then creating the port to access the information in the web service server. Then by adding a swing control button and then creating the list containing the shares and using an iterator to iterate through the list inside a while loop I then converted int available shares and float value and xml Gregoriancalendar to String to be displayed in the jtable using the tablemodel and the addsharetotable function. Next, the client needed to include a search functionality which allowed customers to list shares using various search criteria such as company details and the highest price. To achieve this, I first created a combo box which held company name and company symbol and a jtextfield which a customer could type in the name or symbol of the share they wish to search and a jbutton. Firstly, declaring the selected index for the combo box since if the company name is selected then it will be 0 and if company symbol is selected it will be 1. Next the table is cleared using the .setrowcount(0). Next the value of the search bar is stored as a string and the table model and list are once again declared and inside a while loop if the company name search bar string equals the value of a company name in the share list then the list will be iterated and output the matching share to the table. This is done the same with company symbol in the else statement. For the highest and lowest shares available search functionality I similarly added a combo box containing maximum and minimum searches and a jbutton, I firstly declared an arraylist to store the values of the table in the i,2 column which is the third column which is the shares available and is converted to string. Then created two integers max and min and using the collections function to find the maximum and minimum values in the shares available list. Then using the similar while loop as for the previous search function if the maximum shares available in the list equals the value of shares available of one of the shares in the list then the output will be that share to the table. And using if statement to then find the minimum also.

Next, I created the currency conversion service inside the client by firstly referencing the wsdl files from the currency conversion web service and using the port to return the conversion rate class from the getconversionrate. I then created two jtextfields firstly the company name of the share to be converted and secondly the currency for the share value to be converted too and then a jbutton to convert and a final jtextfield to output the new value too. Firstly, I created two variables to store the values of the jtextfields. Then after creating the list of shares and using the while loop to iterate through the shares and if the company name entered by the customers equals a company name in the list of shares then the currency of that share is obtained using .getcurrency and the new currency is stored as variables for the getconvervionrate class and is stored as the old currency and then converted to string and then a float. Then the oldvalue of the share is stored as old value and finally the new value is the old value multiplied by the output from the conversion rate from the currency conversion service and is outputted to the jtextfield as the new value. Next, I researched various external restful services which would extend the functionality of the shares system that would return up to date currency exchange rates. The API that I utilised was exhangerates.io which returned up to date exchange rates. Then I implemented the API into my system for off-line use. To implement this, I used the three more jtextfields the first is for the customer to enter the company name of the share and the second is for the new currency for the share to be updated to, and finally the third is the new value of the share after being updated with a jbutton to convert. Firstly, I created the two string variables which were the both the values of the first two jtextfields. Then created the list of shares and the while loop to store the list of shares into the jtable like the previous exchange function I created an if statement if the entered company name equals a company name in the list of shares then the currency for that share is stored as a variable and the new currency is also stored as a string variable. I then stored the wsURL for the api as a string and then created a method which would take both the new and old currency and pass it into the url and output the result from calculating the new currency value from the api. The output however was multiple strings so needed to be split to just the integer result using the .split function to acquire this integer. Then using the similar function as the previous converter, I multiplied the old value by the new currency value to output the new value of the share using the updated currency conversion and output to the third jtextfield, then using a catch statement to catch and print both exceptions if any occurred.
